Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss
about realloc in
C
So using realloc function we can re size the
memory area which was already allocated using malloc or
calloc
It is also declared in stdlib.h
So we have to make sure that we include this
header file in the programme before we use it
Now the limitation of realloc is that if we
use realloc before creating memory dynamically using malloc
or calloc then the behaviour is undefined
Reaalloc takes
Two arguments. First is pointer to the memory block which
is to be resized and next is the new size
we need
This new size can be smaller than or larger than
the actual size. So consider the C code
So we are declaring a character pointer ptr and using
malloc
We are allocating 100 bytes of memory and its base
address will be stored in ptr
Now suppose this memory is not sufficient and we want a
block of 1000 bytes so we can write the realloc
function like this realloc(ptr,1000)
so it will resize
A memory block pointed by ptr into 1000 bytes
So consider another sample code
First we are declaring an integer pointer ptr and it is
created in stack at address 2048. Now we are using malloc
function and recall what was the argument of malloc
function.
It is the size of memory need to be allocated
So we have 5 x sizeof(int) that is 5 x 4
that is 20 bytes
So five blocks of four bytes each allocated in heap
and base address is stored in ptr
Now suppose we only need two blocks so we can
use realloc function to reduce the size
So we pass ptr and new size which is
2 x sizeof(int)
So it is reduced like this and returns the base
address to ptr
Now suppose we want 4 more blocks
Then we can use realloc function to increase
the size
So we pass ptr and the new size which is
6 x sizeof(int)  ad it is resized like this
Now let's see some cases
If the given size is smaller than actual size it will
simply deallocate the memory not needed. If the given
size is larger than actual memory it will check whether it
can expand the already available memory
If it is possible it will simply resize the
memory
Otherwise realloc will create new block of memory with
a new size and copy the old data to the
newly allocated block and then deallocate the old memory
block
For example assume we have already alotted memory
for two integers and now we need memory for
two more integers
But see here it is not able to expand the
size
So it will find this available space in here and
allocate memory for 4 integers and then copy the data
that is 10 and 20 to
New Block and deallocate the old block and finally
it returns the base address to the new block
So that's all and thank you for watching this video